**Data and Code**

All data related to the GLORIA version 57 database were obtained through the online repository availabe at https://ielab.info/resources/datasets. The extraction of Input Output matrices from the GLORIA database is facilitated by the provided Matlab file (Step 1). The generation of final demand vectors, incorporating all Dutch agricultural exports to final demand and other sectors beyond the Netherlands, can be done by the R and Matlab files (Steps 2 & 3). The calculation of material footprints for various environmental pressures and impacts related to Dutch agricultural export is facilitated by the Matlab file (Step 4). Moreover, the creation of the value-added matrix associated with Dutch agricultural export is achieved using the file (Step 5). Postprocessing of material footprints and the creation of figures and tables, as listed in the manuscript, are conducted using the provided R files (Steps 6, 7 & 8).


'_Sectors_binary.csv_' includes the sectorial structure of GLORIA.57 and can be used in _step 2 & 3_ to select the different final demand vectors: plant-based export, animal-based export, total agricultural export and total export. Data on GDP per capita ('_GPD_per_capita.csv_') can be downloaded from the World Bank (https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.GDP.PCAP.CD). GDP per capita is used to generate Figure 3 and the multiple regression analysis (Step 8). The Global North country classification used in this study ('_Regions - Emerging non emerging.csv_')is based on a study from Hickel et al., (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2022.102467). The 27 European Union member states ('_EU_or_not.csv_') can be found on https://european-union.europa.eu/principles-countries-history/eu-countries_en. Both the Global North country classification and the EU membership are used in the multiple regression analysis (Step 8).

Based on the technical documentation and release notes of GLORIA.57, data on smaller countries with smaller economies have higher uncertainties and are therefore excluded from our analysis. The technical documentation can be found at https://ielab.info/analyse/gloria.

